Alerting Docs: Update Alert rule and Notification Templating (#94069)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/alerting-rules/templates/examples.md

  reference-functions:
    - pattern: /docs/grafana/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/alerting/alerting-rules/templates/reference/#functions
    - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/
      destination: /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/alerting/alerting-rules/templates/reference/#functions
  language-functions:
    - pattern: /docs/grafana/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/alerting/alerting-rules/templates/language/#functions
    - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/
      destination: /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/alerting/alerting-rules/templates/language/#functions
  language-index:
    - pattern: /docs/grafana/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/alerting/alerting-rules/templates/language/#functions
    - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/
      destination: /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/alerting/alerting-rules/templates/language/#functions
  language:
    - pattern: /docs/grafana/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/alerting/alerting-rules/templates/language
    - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/alerting-and-irm/alerting/alerting-rules/templates/language
---

# Labels and annotations template examples

> Templating allows you to enrich alert labels and annotations with dynamic data from queries. This dynamic data enhances alert context, making it easier for responders to quickly assess and address the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Templating allows you to add dynamic data from queries to alert labels and annotations.  Dynamic data enhances alert context, making it easier for responders to quickly assess and address the issue.
```

This page provides common examples for templating labels and annotations. For more information on templating, refer to:

- [Template annotations and labels](ref:alert-rule-templates)
- [Annotation and label template reference](ref:reference)
- [Alerting template language](ref:language)

## Annotation example

[Annotations](ref:annotations) add extra details to alert instances and are often used to provide helpful information for identifying the issue and guiding the response.

A common use case for annotations is to display the specific query value or threshold that triggered the alert.

> For example, you can display the query value from the [`$values`](ref:reference-values) variable to inform about the CPU value that triggered the alert:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can display the query value from the [`$values`](ref:reference-values) variable to inform about the CPU value that triggered the alert.
```

```
CPU usage has exceeded 80% ({{ $values.A.value }}) for the last 5 minutes.
```

> Alternatively, you can use the [`index()`](ref:language-index) function to retrieve the query value as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use the [`index()`](ref:language-index) function to retrieve the query value as follows.
```
